% CS101-D24
% 8/27/2015 - LEC 1
% KWANG KIM



## Survey
<style type="text/css">
p { text-align: left; }
</style>
<style type="text/css">
li { text-align: left; }
</style>

Please, write the survey.

-----------

### CS101-D1,D24 

- ALGORITHMIC PROBLEM SOLVING I

- Instructor: KWANG HYUN KIM([kkim@qcc.cuny.edu](mailto:kkim@qcc.cuny.edu?subject=CS101-D24 Question))
- Departmental syllabi
[http://www.qcc.cuny.edu/mathCS/syllabi/MA119.pdf](http://www.qcc.cuny.edu/mathCS/syllabi/MA119.pdf)

- TEXT: C++ Without Fear, 2nd,  By B. Overland.


------------


### Grading

**No make up quiz, project, exam**.

- a. Class exam(30%):TEST 1, TEST2, TEST3

- b. LAB(45%)
 - LAB QUIZ(6%): 3 quizzes (+ 1 Extra quiz)
 - LAB TEST(27%): 3 coding tests.
 - LAB PROJECT(12%): 3 personal projects + 1 team project

- c. **Final**(25%)- regular Test(13%) + Coding test(12%)


**I will replace one of lowest scores of class TEST1, 2, 3 if final regular score is higher.**

**I will replace one of lowest scores of coding TEST 1, 2, 3 if final coding score is higher.**

------------

### Communication

- **piazza.com** as a class discussion board. 
- Check your **tigermail** for invitation email. 
- [**c9.io**](https://c9.io) for an online compiler
- [**github.com**](http://www.github.com) for project submission.

---------------

### Class meets
- Mon 10:10AM - 12:00PM at **S-219** (LAB)
- Tue 10:10AM - 11:00PM at **S-213**
- Thr 10:10AM - 12:00PM at **S-213**

-----------------

### Office hours
- Mon, 09:05AM-10:05AM at S-320A
- Tue, 11:05AM-12:05PM at S-219 (LAB)
- Tue, 12:05PM-01:05PM at S-320A

---------------

### Recommandation
- Programming: Principles and Practice Using C++ (2nd Edition) by B Stroustrup. ISBN: 978-0321992789

- C++ Primer. 5th Edition by S Lippman. ISBN: 978-0321714114

- The C++ Programming Language (4th Edition) by B Stroustrup.   ISBN 978-0321563842

-----------------

### **Attendance Policy**

> - Unexcused absences beyond 15% of course hours(**6 days**)=> F.

> - To excuse your absences, a **proper document with early notice** is necessary.

> - Two late marks count as one absence.

> - If students leave early without early notice, I will consider as one late mark.

----------------

### No SNS and phone policy

- Please, silence your cellphone and other electronic devices. 

- Except early notice, do not use SNS or phone.

- **For the quiz and test, students should turn off their electronic devices and put them in their bag to avoid a failing grade for the quiz, or test.**

---------

### Comments

- A good Programmer may not get a better grade in class.

- Come on time.

- Submit your project on time. (No late submission.)

- Read the TEXTBOOK!

- No Make up Quiz and Test!

- Practice again at home.

---------------

### Goal

In this course, we will study

> - How to identify problems
> - How to make algorithms to solve the problems
> - How to implement algorithms using c++

-----------

## Declarative vs Imperative

--------------

### Declarative Knowledge - What

Declarative knowledge is composed of statements of fact.

EX: “y is the square root of x if and only if y*y = x”

-------------

### Imperative Knowledge - How

Imperative knowledge is about how to accomplish something. Think
of it as a recipe.

> - 1. Start with a guess, g.
<br>
> - 2. If g*g is close enough to x,

> - => g is a good approximation of the square root of x
<br>
> - 3. Otherwise, create a new guess by averaging g and x/g.
I.e., gnew = (g_old + x/g_old)/2
<br>
> - 4. Using this new guess, go back to step 2

-------------

### Think like a programmer

> - Computer can do only what you tell them.
<br>
<br>
<h3>
> - Data(Information) + Code(Instruction)          
</h3>
<br>
<br>
> - Computer needs more specific (logical) commands.

------------------


